---
layout: default
title: KYC critical masss in Bitcoin
permalink: kyccmbtc
---

Speculation. KYC "critical mass" is when the economic majority—maybe
70% or more—of Bitcoin users are KYCd. Unfortunately, many people
think this is not a problem because the privacy malpractice of others
is not your concern. That is not true.

What might happen once KYC critical mass is reached is that Bitcoin
addresses that have not been KYCd will be tracked, traced, even
eventually blacklisted entirely. Governments will get away with this
because the economic majority who are already KYCd will not be
affected by it and may even want people to be known like they are.

What began as something good—the fact that you properly managed your
on-chain privacy— turns into a kind of Scarlet Letter attatched to
your coins.

"So? Who is going to stop me from sending my funds peer-to-peer?" Good
 question. The government will. They can do this in several ways. 

More directly, they can issue "do-not-mine" orders to miners in an
attempt to prevent them from processing transactions from addresses
that aren't identified. This may or may not work. Less directly, they
can pass legislation that holds businesses or individuals liable for
doing business with addresses that have not been identified. This
would essentially cut you off from the mainstream economy. Even less
directly, at some point in the future after your transaction, the
person you did business with will do business with someone else, who
might do business with something that requires KYC. Governments can
trace these funds back now, person to person, until someone reveals
some bit of information they have on you. Or they will require people 
who are already KYCd to provide a name, address and description of each person to whom they are sending Bitcoin. 

Obviously there are exceptions to this. And maybe off-chain
transactions will solve a lot of this concern. Maybe improvements to
the privacy of Bitcoin layer 1 will make KYC a non-issue. Maybe
miners, businesses and corporate structures will decentralise to the
point where they don't have a single point of failure that the
government can blackmail against accepting coins without KYC. Maybe,
God-willing, all the exchanges will go "poof" and disappear, so that
people will stop entering the Bitcoin economy through regulated, KYC
channels. 

The point is that the longtime viability of your privacy strategy on
Bitcoin depends at least in part upon forces largely outside of your
control. KYC affects us all.

