---
layout: default
title: How people were supposed to get Bitcoin
permalink: hpsbtc
---

It’s hard to overstate what an incredible screw up it was
for privacy and freedom to turn Bitcoin against its
original purpose as e-cash for micropayments[1] into an
investment asset purchased on exchanges.

Here’s how Satoshi Nakamoto wanted people to get Bitcoin.

a. Miners mine Bitcoin.

b. Miners use their coins to buy goods and services, 
   especially things they can't get without Bitcoin[2]. 
   
c. People trade their coins to other people, peer-to-peer, 
   in exchange for something they want. It's cash. 
   
d. Profit. We have an economy.

This could have been done privately, peer-to-peer, without
KYC or regulation because people would enter the Bitcoin
economy by earning Bitcoin and trading it for something
they want. Because most payments would be small, they
wouldn't even fall under existing AML/KYC legislation
requirments.

Here’s how people get Bitcoin now because
short-sighted devs and exchange operators decided that
Bitcoin didn't need to be useful as cash anymore and ought
to be treated like an investment instead.

a. Miners mine Bitcoin. 

b. Miners sell these Bitcoin to investors on regulated KYC 
   exchanges. 
   
c. Investors buy these Bitcoin on regulated KYC exchanges.

d. People hold these Bitcoin. Even if they do use them, its 
   often only practical for larger payments that fall under 
   existing KYC/AML legislation. Eventually, they sell them 
   to other people on KYC exchanges.
   
e. Profit ??????? 

f. Wait what, I thought it was peer-to-peer electronic cash?

Do you see what a disaster this is and that it didn't have
to be this way?

If Bitcoin had remained usable as cash, and if people had
understood that the intent and design of Bitcoin
necessitated that it be cash, and not a token you trade on
exchanges, we could have avoided, postponed, or softened a
lot of the dark stuff that is yet to come when everyone
wakes up to the fact that a majority of Bitcoin holders
unwittingly KYCd themselves on a public ledeger and will be
easily tracked and traced on-chain, censored, taxed,
etc *forever.*

Surveillance, coin blacklists, freezing orders, Bitcoin
addresses tied to your name so that governments and thieves
or hackers can harass and control you. Censorship. All made
more likely and more dangerous because millions of people
entered the Bitcoin "economy" through exchanges and not
peer-to-peer trade.[3]

As it is, it’s probably too late to avoid much pain. A lot
of people incorrectly believe they are safe, private and
free with Bitcoin. They’re going to learn otherwise one day
soon.

Welcome to...reality.
 
[1] The argument was that limiting the block-size to keep
the cost of running a node cheap, Bitcoin would be more
resilient to takeover, more private, etc. This came at the
expense of limiting Bitcoin's transaction throughput
capacity, making it unreliable as cash, so the idea became
that Bitcoin was actually never intended to be cash, but an
investment. 

[2] Regular merchant adoption was always a later stage of
development, preceeeded by things that *only* Bitcoin could
accomplish like micropayments for data, gambling, digital
downloads, etc, or grey and black markets that needed a
reliable way to take payments that was resistant to
shutdown by banks, governments or the issues that typically
plague these markets like payment fraud.

[3] And no, mixers likley won't stop this, and even being
unKYCd won't save you either, but these are topics for
another essay.
