---
layout: default
title: Know-Your-Transaction
permalink: kytbtc
---

A specter is haunting Bitcoin. The specter of know-your-transaction (KYT) laws.

Financial regulators are just beginning to understand all they can do to turn Bitcoin into a tool
for total control and surveillance. Know-your-customer (KYC) laws were the first step.[1] Nearly everyone who enters
the Bitcoin economy today enters it through a KYC on-ramp. Those coins they purchase are
forever tied to their identity and can be tracked and traced whenever a regulator wants. When customer records
are inevitably hacked and leaked from these exchanges, extortionists, trolls, tax-collectors, cancel mobs, totalitarian states—anyone who wants—will
be able to see exactly where you sent your money without your permission.

But all of this gets much worse with the coming KYT laws. Where KYC turns businesses into spies for the state and honeypots for hackers, KYT will make everyone this. Where KYC
requires businesses to store and turn over potentially incriminating evidence on their customers, KYT will require you to store and turn over
imcrinating evidence on yourself, and anyone with whom you have transacted. 

This means, more than ever, anyone with whom you transact will be a privacy risk. It means even if you have never KYCd, anyone who pays you
might be required to turn over your name, address, or any other personally identifying information they have on you. People could always
do this voluntarily in the past, but how many people will be willing to face fines or penalities so they can protect your identity if the 
government knocks on their door and demands records?

If you think you are going to mix coins to escape KYC, you are wrong. KYT means the government can still demand
you turn over records for all transactions up to the amount you sent through the mixer. The responsibility will be on you to keep records and if
you don't, you will be held to account for the full penalty in the same way the IRS assumes you owe the maximum tax burden until you prove otherwise.

Privacy best practices can help mitigate some of these concerns. Don't KYC. Don't reuse Bitcoin addresss. Be careful about information you reveal in a transaction. [2] But if you want to participate in the mainstream
economy, it won't be enough. Expect a non-trivial amount of your on-chain Bitcoin activity to be slowly identified over time, even if you 
have self-custodied your funds. Think you're 
going to use Lightning Network to get around this? KYT laws will apply there as well. If you don't provide records because you can't
or don't want to, you will be assumed guilty or liable and held to the maximum penalty possible until you prove otherwise.

This will all have a chilling effect on the types of commerce that even take place on Bitcoin. Already, Bitcoin's use on dark or greymarkets has dropped
as more and more people have realised the dangers of using a public ledger to conduct certain types of business. Now that people will be required
to store records of inbound and outbound transactions, we can expect Bitcoin's utility as cash to drop even further. People simply
won't want to risk doing businesss with anyone who might look bad on a records report. Censorship, accomplished indirectly without any orders
to miners to freeze transactions.

People will try to resist, but I suspect its too late for that. Too many people have already been KYCd, and if we aren't at [KYC critical mass yet,](https://dmkgll.github.io/kyccmbtc) we will be soon.


[1] Unless you believe, which to be honest, I do, that limiting the block size was at least partly a state operation to control the scale
of Bitcoin.

[2] All of this is incentivised by small block sizes though. Low fees makes it much more practical to never reuse addresses.

